e
e e
now
Co for
[Music]
please be
seated the sitting is
open the court meets today
pursuant to article 67 of the statute to
deliver its advisory opinion on the
request submitted by the general
assembly of the United Nations on the
question of the legal consequences
arising from the policies and
practices of Israel in the occupied
Palestinian territory including
Jerusalem the questions on which the
advisory opinion of the court has been
requested are set for report is
resolution 77 bar 247 adopted by the
United Nations General Assembly on
December 30
2022 by a letter dated 17 January
2023 and received by the registry on
January 19th
2023 the Secretary General of the United
Nations officially communicated to the
court the dec the decision taken by the
general assembly to submit these
questions for an advisory
opinion paragraph 18 of the resolution
reads as follow as follows and I quote
the general
assembly decides in accordance with
article 96 of the charter of the United
Nations to request the international
court of justice pursuant to article 65
of the statute of the court to render an
advisor opin opinion on the following
questions considering the rules and
principles of international law
including the charter of the United
Nations International humanitarian law
international human rights law relevant
resolutions of the security Council the
general assembly and the Human Rights
Council and the advisory opinion of the
court of July 9
2004 a what are the legal consequences
arising from the ongoing violation by
Israel of the right of the Palestinian
people to
self-determination from its prolonged
occupation settlement and annexation of
the Palestinian territory occupied since
1967 including measures aimed at
altering the demographic composition
character and status of the holy city of
Jerusalem and from its adoption of
related discriminatory legislation and
measures B how do the policies and
practices of Israel referred to in
paragraph 18
a affect the legal status of the
occupation and what are the legal
consequences that arise for all states
and United Nations from this status and
of
quote in accordance with usual practice
I shall not read out the introductory
paragraphs of the opinion will set out
the main elements of the procedural
history or the
proceedings I shall also omit or
summarize some of the other paragraphs
of the
opinion I shall accordingly begin
reading The Advisory opinion at
paragraph
22 the full text of the opinion will of
course be available at the close of the
sitting when seized with the request for
the advisor opinion the court must first
consider whether it has jurisdiction to
give the opinion requested and if so
whether there is any reason why the
court should in the exercise of its
discretion decline to answer the
request the court must satisfy itself in
accordance with the requirement of
article 96 of the charter and article 65
of its statute that the question on
which it's required to give its opinion
is a legal
question in the present proceedings the
general assembly put two questions to
the court these questions relate first
to the legal consequences arising from
certain policies and practices of Israel
as an occupying power in a situation of
belligerent occupation since
1967 secondly they relate to how such
policies and practices affect the legal
status of the occupation in l of certain
rules and principle of international law
and to the legal consequences which
arise from the
status the court considers that these
questions are legal questions in light
of the above the court concludes that
the request has been made in accordance
with the provisions of the charter and
of the statute of the court and
therefore that it has jurisdiction to
render the requested opinion
the fact that the court has jurisdiction
to give an advisory opinion does not
mean that it is obliged to exercise
it however only compelling reasons may
lead the court to refuse to give its
opinion in response to a request falling
within its
jurisdiction some participants in the
present proceedings have argued that
there are compelling reasons for the
court to decline
to give its
opinion as to the argument that the
request raised to a dispute between two
parties one of which has not consented
to the jurisdiction of the Court the
court considers that the subject matter
of the request is not only a bilateral
matter between Israel and
Palestine but it is of particular
interest and concern to the United
Nations and that giving the opinion
requested does not have effect of
circumventing the principle of consent
to judicial
settlement as to the argument that the
Court's opinion would not assist the
general assembly in the performance of
its
functions the court considers that it
cannot substitute its own assessment of
the need for such an opinion with that
of the organ requesting
it as to the argument that the opinion
of the Court would have an adverse
effect on the negotiation framework the
court considers that it is a matter of
conjecture on which the court should not
speculate as to the argument that the
court does not have sufficient
information to enable it to give an
advisor opinion the court considers that
it has before it sufficient information
to decide legal questions any a matter
any a manner
consistent with its judicial
function as to the argument that the
questions are formulated in a biased
manner the court does not consider that
the general assembly intended to
restrict the Court's freedom to
determine these issues the court will
assertain for itself whether Israel's
policies and practices are in violation
of the applicable rules and principles
of international law before determining
the legal consequences of any such
violations having examined each of these
arguments in turn the court concludes
that there are no compelling reasons for
it to decline to give the opinion
requested by the general
assembly the court then records the
general context of the case before
turning to the scope and meaning of the
questions posed by the general assembly
in this regard the court notes that the
questions Define the material
Territorial and temporal scope of the
Court's
inquiry with regard to the material
scope questions a identifies three types
of
conduct which question B describes as
policies and practices of Israel first
the ongoing violation by Israel of the
right of the Palestinian people to
self-determination second Israel's
prolonged occupation settlement and
annexation of the Palestinian territory
occupied since
1967 including measures aimed at
altering the demographic composition
character and status of the holy city of
Jerusalem third Israel's adoption of
related discriminatory legislation and
measures the specific scope of each of
these policies and practices is
determined later as the court examined
them in turn before turning to that
examination the court limits itself to
observing a feature common to all of
them namely that the term of question
that the terms of question
a assume that these policies and
practices are contrary to international
law by virtue of its judicial function
however the course must itself determin
the lawfulness of the policies and
practices identified by the general
assembly in the present case the court
considered that question a required an
assessment of the Conformity with
international law of those polies and
practices of Israel identified in the
request the court
considers that in its request the
general assembly has not sought from the
court a detail
factual determination of Israel's
policies and
practices therefore in order to give an
advisor opinion in this case it's not
necessary for the court to make findings
of fact with regard to specific
incidents allegedly in violation of
international law the court need only
establish the main features of Israel
policies and practices and on that basis
assess the conf formity of these
policies and practices with
international
law in terms of its teritorial scope
question a refers to and I quote the
Palestinian territory occupied since
1967 unquote which encompasses the West
Bank East Jerusalem and the gasa
strip the court notes that the various
United Nations organs and bodies
frequently
make specific reference to the different
parts of the occupied Palestinian
territory the court also does so in the
present adviser opinion as
appropriate however the court recalls
that from a legal standpoint the
occupied Palestinian territory
constitutes a single territorial unit uh
uh unit the unity contiguity and
integrity of which is to be preserved
and respected
thus all references in this opinion to
the occupied Palestinian territory are
references to a single territorial
unit the court further observes that the
question mentions measures pertaining to
the holy city of
Jerusalem the ordinary meaning of this
term is
ambiguous and may be subject to multiple
interpretations but the context provides
useful clarification in the present
case in light of this context the quote
is of you that the question posed by the
general assembly relating to the holy
city of Jerusalem is confined to
measures taken by Israel in East
Jerusalem in terms of its temporal scope
question a requests the court to take
account of measures adopted by
Israel in the occupied Palestinian
territory since
1967 however the court is not precluded
from having regard to facts predating
the occupation to the extent that this
is necessary for the proper discharge of
its judicial
function the court notes that the
request for an advisor opinion was
adopted by the general assembly on
December 30
2022 and as the court to address
Israel's I quote
ongoing or I quote again continuing
policies and
practices thus the court is of the view
that the policies and practices
contemplated by the request of the
general assembly do not include conduct
by Israel in the Gaza Strip in response
to the attack carried out against it by
Hamas and other armed group on October 7
question B has two parts the first part
request the court to assess how the
policies and practic of Israel
identified by the general
assembly affect the legal status of the
occupation the court observed that the
use of the verb effect points to the
possibility that such policies and
practices may bring about changes to the
legal
status however the scope of the first
part of the question depends upon the
meaning of the expression legal status
of the
occupation in the overall context of
question
B in the present context the court is of
the view that the first part of question
B calls on the court to ascertain the
manner in which Israel's policies and
practices affect the legal status of the
occupation and thereby the legality of
the continued presence of Israel as an
occupying power in the occupied
Palestinian
territory the cult observed that both
question a and the second part of
question B call upon it to determine the
legal consequences arising respectively
from Israel's policies and practices and
from its continued presence as an
occupying power in the occupied
Palestinian territory
if and to the extent that the court
finds that any of Israel's policies and
practices or its continued presence in
the occupied palestin ter Palestinian
territory are contrary to international
law the court indicates that it will
examine the legal consequences following
from such findings for Israel for other
states and for the United
Nations having Define the scope and
meaning of the questions posed by the
general
assembly the court must determine the
applicable
law the applicability of certain rules
of international law in the territory
concern depends on the status of that
territory under international
law the court first seeks to assertain
the status of the occupied Palestinian
territory under international law and
then determines which rules of
international law are relevant for
answering the questions posed to it by
the general
assembly the question posed by the
general assembly are premised on the
assumption that the occupied Palestinian
territory is occupied by
Israel in its 2004 advisor opinion on
the legal consequences of the
construction of a wall in the occupied
Palestinian territory the court set out
the
circumstances under which a state of
occupation is
established the court observed that in
the 1967 armed conflict Israel occupied
the territories situated between the
green line and the former eastern
boundary of Palestine under the British
mandate namely the West Bank and East
Jerusalem the court affirmed that
subsequent events had not altered the
status of the territories in questions
as occupied territories nor Israel's
status as occupying
power in its SW advisor opinion the
court did not express a view as to the
legal status of the Gaza Strip and the
construction of the wall did not affect
the Gaza Strip the Gaza Strip is an
integral part of the territory that was
occupied by Israel
1967 following the 1967 armed conflict
Israel as the occupying power placed the
Gaza Strip under its effective control
control however in 2004 Israel announced
this engagement
plan according that plan Israel was to
withdraw its military presence from the
Gaza Strip and from several areas in the
northern part of the West
Bank by 2005 Israel had completed the
withdrawal of its Army and the removal
of the settlements in the Gaza
Strip the court notes that the for the
purpose of determining whether a
territory remains occupied under
international law the decisive Criterion
is not whether the occupying power
retained its physical military presence
in the territory at all times but rather
whether its Authority has been
established and can be
exercised based on the information
before the court it considers that
Israel remained capable of exercising
and continued to exercise certain key
elements of authority over the Gaza
Strip including control of the land sea
and air
borders restrictions on the movement of
people and goods collection of import of
Import and Export taxes and Military
control over the buffer zone despite the
withdrawal of its military presence in
2005 this is even more so since o
October 7
2023 in light of the above the code is
of the view that Israel's withdrawal
from the Gaza Strip has not entirely
released it of its obligations under the
law of
occupation Israel's obligations have
remained commensurate with the degree of
its effective control over the Gaza
Strip the court then turn to the rules
and principles that are relevant for
answering the questions put to it these
include the prohibition of the
acquisition of territory by threat or
use of force and the right of people to
self-determination which are enshrined
in the charter of the United Nations and
also form part of customary
international
law further International humanitarian
law is of particular
relevance Israel's powers and duties in
the occupied inan territory are governed
by the Geneva Convention relative to the
protection of Civilian persons in time
of War of August 12th
1949 to which I shall refer as the
Fourth Geneva Convention which is
applicable in the occupied Palestinian
territory and by customary international
law pursuing to article 154 of the
Fourth Geneva Convention that convention
is suppl m to the rules contained in
sections 2 and three of the heg
regulations respecting the laws and
customs of for and on land Ann next to
that
Convention as the court has observed in
its Juris Prudence The he regulations
have become part of customary
international law and they are thus
binding on
Israel as regards international human
rights law the court observed that is
Isel is party to several legal
instruments containing human rights
obligations including the International
Convention on the elimination of all
forms of racial
discrimination of 21 December
1965 to which I shall refer to as SD the
international Covenant on economic
social and cultur R of 16 December
1966 to which I shall refer to as the I
CCR and the international Covenant on
civil and political rights of 19
December
1966 to which I refer to as
iccp the court records that
international human rights instruments
are applicable in respect to acts done
by a state in the exercise of its
jurisdiction outside its own territory
particularly in occupied
territories the court further recalls
that the protection offered by Human
Rights Convention does not cease in the
case of armed conflict or of
occupation some rights may be may be
exclusively matters of international
humanitarian law others may be
exclusively matters of human rights law
yet Others May Concern both these
branches of international
law referring to its SW advisor opinion
the court observes that Israel remains
Bound by the
icpr and the
ICC in respect of its conduct with
regard to the
occupied Palestinian
territory in relation to third the court
knows that the convention contains no
provision expressly restricting its
territorial
application on the contrary sever
several of its Provisions impose
obligations on state parties that are
applicable in territories under their
jurisdiction or in relation to
individuals within their
jurisdiction this indicat that third is
also applicable to conduct of a state
party which has effects Beyond its
territory in the court view Israel must
comply with its obligations under ser in
circumstances in which it exercises its
jurisdiction outside its
territory as several participants in the
present proceedings expressed diverging
views regarding the relevance of the
Accord signed in 1993 and 1995 by Israel
and the Palestine Liber Liberation
Organization also known as the Oslo
Accords the court turns to those
agreements the parties to the Osa Accord
agreed to and I quote exercise their
powers and responsibility pursuing to
the Accords with due regard to
internationally accepted norms and
principles of Human Rights and the rule
of law and of Court the court records
that in considered in its whole opinion
that the legitimate rights of the
Palestinian people recognized in the
Oslo Accords includes the right to self
determination the court observed that in
interpreting the osto Accords it's
necessary to take into account article
47 of the Fourth Geneva Convention which
provides that the protected population
shall not be deprived of the benefits of
the
convention and I quote by any agreement
concluded between the authorities of the
occupied territories and the occupying
power and of course for all these
reasons
the court considers that these Accords
cannot be understood to detract from
Israel's obligations under the pertinent
rules of international law applicable in
the occupied Palestinian
territory the court then assesses the
Conformity of Israel's policies and
practices in the occupied Palestinian
territory as identified in question a
with its obligations under international
law in particular the Court's analysis
examines in turn the question of the
prolonged
occupation Israel's policy of
settlement the annexation of the
Palestinian territory occupi since
1967 and its adoption of related
legislation and measures that are Ely
discriminatory the court appraises
whether and if so how Israel policies
and practices affect the right of the
Palestinian people to
self-determination after those other
questions have been
consider with regard to the question of
prolonged occupation the court notes
that question a concerns in part the
legal consequences arising from Israel's
again quote unquote prolonged occupation
of the occupied Palestinian
territory in this regard the court note
that Israel occupation has lasted for
more than 57 years in order to answer
this aspect of the question the court
must turn to the relationship between
Israel as the occupying power and the
protected population of the occupied
territory which is governed by the law
of
occupation by virtue of its status as an
occupying power a States assumes a set
of powers and duties with respect to the
territory over which it exercis
effective
control in this context the occupying
power Bears a duty to administer the
territory for the benefit of the local
population the nature and scope of these
powers and Duties are always premised on
the same
assumption that occupation is a
temporary situation to respond to
military necessity and it cannot
transfer title of sovereignty to the
occupying power
the fact that an occupation is prolonged
does not in itself change the legal
status under International humanitarian
law although premise on the temporary
character of the occupation the law of
occupation does not set temporary limits
that would as such alter the legal
status of the
occupation instead the legality of the
occupying Powers presence in the
occupied territory must be assessed in
light of other
rules in particular occupations consist
of the
exercise by a state of effective control
in foreign territory in order to be
permissible therefore such exercise of
effective control must at all times be
consistent with the rules concerning the
prohibition of the threat or use of
force including the prohibition of
territorial acquisition resulting from
the threat or use of force as well as
with the right of to
self-determination therefore the fact
that an occupation is prolonged may have
a bearing on the justification under
international law of the occupying Po's
continued presence in the occupied
territory it is against this background
that Israel's policies and practices as
well as its continuing presence in the
occupied Palestinian territory must be
examined the court now turned to these
policies and practices beginning with
Israel's settlement
policy question a posed by the general
assembly inquires in part about the
legal consequences arising from Israel's
settlement
policy the court considered in this
regard that the distinction that is
sometimes made between settlements and
outposts is immaterial for the purpose
of ascertaining whether the communities
in question form part of Israel's
settlement policy what matters is
whether they are established or
maintained with Israel's
support the court further notes that
between 1967 and 2005 Israel settlement
policy was carried out in the West Bank
e Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip since the
removal of Israel settlement from the
Gaza trip in 2005 Israel settlement
policy has continued in the West Bank
and East
Jerusalem the court therefore limits its
analysis to Israel's ongoing settlement
policy in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem at the same time the court
observes that Israel settlement policy
carried out in the Gaza Strip until 2005
was not substantially different from the
policy that continues in the West Bank
and East Jerusalem today
in its small advisory opinion the court
found that Israel settlement policy was
in breach of the sixth paragraph of
article 49 of the four Geneva
Convention which provide that I quote
the occupying power shall not Deport or
transfer part of its own civilian
population into the territory it
occupies end of
court in the court view there is nothing
in the term or the context of the
provision or in the object and purpose
of the drafting history of the for
Geneva Convention to suggest that that
provision prohibits only the forcable
transfer of parts of the occupying power
civilian population into occupied
territory in the present case there is
extensive evidence of
Israel's policy of providing incentives
for the relocation of Israeli
individuals and businesses
into the West Bank as well as for its
industrial and Agricultural Development
by
settlers there is also evidence that
Israel regularly legalizes outposts that
have been established in contravention
of domestic Israeli legislation and that
Israel's construction of settlements is
accompanied by special designed civilian
infrastructure in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem which integrate the settlement
into the territory of
Israel in light of the above the code
considers that the transfer by Israel of
settlers to the West Bank and East
Jerusalem as well as Israel maintenance
of their presence is contrary to article
49 of the for Geneva
Convention the court further notes that
the expansion of Israel settlement in
the West Bank and East Jerusalem is
based on the confiscation or
acquisitioning of large areas of
land observing that in the present case
the public property confiscated or
requisition for the development of
Israeli settlements benefits the
civilian population of settlers to the
detriment of the local po Palestinian
population the call concludes that
Israel's land policies are not in
Conformity with articles 46 52 and 55
five of the he
regulations the core next turned to the
question of the exploitation of Natural
Resources it record that under the
principle of customary international law
contained in article 55 of the heg
regulations the occupying power shall be
regarded only as administrator and US
frory of INF natural resources in the
occupied territory including but not
limited to Forest and agriculture
Estates and it shall Safeguard the
capital of these
resources therefore the use by the
occupying power of Natural Resources
must not exceed what is necessary for
the purposes of the occupation in this
connection the court observed that the
occupying power had the continuing duty
to ensure that the local population has
an adequate supply of food stuffs
including water moreover the use of
Natural Resources in the occupied
territory must be sustainable and it
must avoid environmental
harm on the basis of the evidence before
it the court considers that Israel's use
of the natural resources in the occupied
Palestinian territory is
inconsistent with its obligations under
international
law by diverting a large share of the
natural resources to its own population
including settlers Israel is in breach
of its obligation to act as an
administrator or USU
fruct the court further considers that
by severely restricting the access of
Palestinian population to water that is
available in the occupied Palestinian
territory Israel acts inconsistently
with its obligation to ensure the
availability of water in sufficient
quantity and
quality in light of its analysis the
court also in concludes that Israel's
policy of exploitation of Natural
Resources in the occupied Palestinian
territory is inconsistent with its
obligation to respect the Palestinians
people's right to permanent sovereignty
over natural
resources turning next to the question
of the extension of Israeli law to the
occupied Palestinian
territory the court record that under
article 43 of the heg regulations
the occupying power must in principle
respect the law in force in the occupied
territory unless absolutely prevent
prevented from doing so in principle
then the law of occupation does not
deprive the local population civilian
institutions and the occupied territory
of the regulatory Authority that they
may have rather it invests the occupying
power a set of regulatory power on an
exception bases and on specific
enumerated
grounds based on the evidence before it
the court observed that Israel has
expanded its sphere of regulation in the
West Bank it's not in particular that
Israel has to a large degree substituted
its military law for the local law
enforced in the occupied Palestinian
territory at the beginning of the
occupation in
1967 moreover regional and local
councils of settlers have assumed de
facto jurisdiction over the settlements
in the West
Bank in East Jerusalem domestic Israeli
law has been applied since the beginning
of the occupation in
1967 and Israel treats East Jerusalem as
its own national
territory where Israel law is applied in
full and to the exclusion of any other
domestic legal system
where Israeli law is applied in full and
to the exclusion of any other domestic
use in the present case the court is not
convinced that the extension of Israel's
law to the West Bank and E Jerusalem is
Justified under any of the grounds leted
down in the second paragraph of article
64 of the for Geneva
Convention furthermore the comprehensive
application of Israeli law in East
Jerusalem M as well as its application
in relation to settlers throughout the
West Bank cannot be deemed quote unquote
essential for any of the purposes
enumerated in the second paragraph of
article 64 of the Fourth Geneva
Convention for these reasons the court
considers that Israel has exercised its
regulatory Authority as an occupying
power in a manner that is inconsistent
with the rule reflected in article 43 of
the heg regulations and article 64 of
the Fourth Geneva
Convention the court then turned to the
effects of Israel settlement policy on
the departure of the Palestinian
people the court observed that the large
scale confiscation of land and the
deprivation of access to natur resources
divest the local population of their
basic means of sub resistance thus
inducing their
departure furthermore a series of
measures taken by Israeli military
forces has exacerbated the pressure on
the Palestinian population to leave
parts of the occupied Palestinian
territory against their
will the court recalls that under the uh
first paragraph of article 49 of the
Fall Geneva Convention I quote
individual or Mass forceable transfers
as well as deportations of protected
persons from occupying territory to the
territory of the occupying power or to
that of any other country occupied or
not are prohibited regardless of their
motive end of
quot in this regard the court considered
that transfer may be forceable and thus
prohibited under article 49 paragraph 1
not only when it is achieved through the
use of physical Force but also when the
people concerned have no choice but to
leave further the court notes that to be
permissible evacuations are conceived as
a temporary measures to be reversed as
soon as the imperative military reasons
subside by contrast evacuations of a
permanent or indefinite character breach
the prohibition of forcible transfer and
therefore are not covered by the
exception set out in the second
paragraph of article
49 the court considers that Israel's
policies and practices including its
forceable evictions extensive house
demolitions and restrictions on
residence and movement often leave
little choice to members of the
Palestinian population living in area C
but to leave their area of res
the nature of Israel's Acts including
the fact that Israel frequently
confiscates land following the
demolition of Palestinian property for
reallocation to Israeli settlements
indicates that its measures are not
temporary in character and therefore
cannot be considered as permissible
evacuations under the for Geneva
Convention in the court view Israel's
policies and practices are cont
to the prohibition of forcible transfer
of the protected population under
article 49 paragraph 1 of The Fourth
Geneva
Convention the court further notes that
Israel's settlement policy has given
rise to Violence by settlers and
security forces against
Palestinians having examined the
evidence before it in light of the
relevant provisions of international law
the cour considered that the Violence by
settlers against Palestinians Israel's
failure to prevent or to punish it
effectively and its excessive use of
force against Palestinians contribute to
the creation and maintenance of a
coercive environment against
Palestinians in the present case on the
basis of the evidence before it the
quote is of the you that Israel
systematic failure to prevent or to
punish attacks by settlers against the
life or for bodily Integrity of
Palestinians as well as Israel's
excessive use of force against
Palestinians is inconsistent with its
obligations in light of the above the
court affirms as it did in its whole
advisory opinion that the Israeli
settlements in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem and the regime associated with
them have been established and are being
maintained in violation of international
law the court notes with great concern
report that Israel settlement policy has
been expanding since the court fall
advisory
opinion in particular in December 2022
Israel Parliament approved the
establishment of an additional Minister
within the ministry of Defense vested
with the governing powers in the West
Bank including land designations
planning
and coordination of demolitions which
would expedite the approval process for
new
settlements also the size of existing
Israeli settlements expanded from
November 1
2022 to October 31 2023 at a significant
rate with approximately
24,300 housing units within existing
Israeli settlements in the West Bank
being advanced or approved including
approximately
9,670 in East
Jerusalem the court observed that the
question posed by the general assembly
refers in part to the legal consequences
arising out of Israel's alleged
annexation of the occupied Palestinian
territory in order to respond to this
aspect of the
question the court must first analyze
the concept of anex
second the court examines Israel's
policies and practices with a view to
determining whether they amount to
annexation finally the court discusses
the lawfulness of Israel's policies and
practices with regard to the concept of
annexation in the present context the
court
understand that to mean the forceable
acquisition by the occupying power of
the territory that it occupies namely
its integration into the territory of
the occupying power annexation then
presupposed the intent of the occupying
power to exercise permanent control over
the occupied
territory the court records in this
regard that under the law of occupation
the control of the occupied territory by
the occupying power must be temporary in
character consequently conduct by the
occupying power that displays an intent
to exercise permanent control over the
occupied territory May indicate an act
of
annexation the assertion by the
occupying power of permanent control of
the occupied territory May manifest
itself in a variety of ways in this
connection the court notes that the
distinction between the jewy and the
facto annexation is occasionally made
although differing in terms of the means
through which the annexation is carried
out both types of annexation share the
same objective the assertion of
permanent control over the occupied
territory against this background the
court must examine whether through its
conduct Israel establishes its perent
control over the occupied Palestinian
territory in a manner that would amount
to annexation
the court first examines Israel policies
and practices in relation to
Jerusalem it note that Israel has
applied its domestic law in E Jerusalem
since its occupation in
1967 in 1980 isra enacted domestic
legislation in the form of a basic law
proclaiming a Jerusalem as part of its
capital Israel has asserted that
Jerusalem is part of it territory as
evidenced by the notification of the
Israeli government to the Secretary
General of the United Nations According
to
which and I quote Jerusalem is not in
any part occupied territory is The
Sovereign capital of the state of
Israel end of quote the absentee
property law of 1950 has facilitated the
confiscation of absentee
property and its use for the expansion
of Israeli settlements in and around the
historical borders of the
city it's reported that
approximately
230,000 person live in 14 settlements
established in East
Jerusalem the court considers that
Israel's measures in E Jerusalem create
an inhospitable environment for the
Palestinian
population because Israel treats each
Jerusalem as its own territory it
regards Palestinians res ing there as
foreigners and it requires that they
hold a valid residence
permit Israeli law has also put in place
a building permit scheme the violation
of which results in
demolition through an expedited
procedure as well as steep
PES according to the Secretary General
of the United Nations Israel process of
land ownership registration is pursued
in areas of of Israeli settlement
expansion which would increase Israeli
control over additional territory in a
Jerusalem turning to Israel's settlement
policy in the West Bank the court
observed that pursuant to the basic law
of 2018 the state of Israel I quote
views the development of Jewish
settlement as a national value and shall
act to encourage and promote its
establishment and consol and
consolidation and of course
the displacement of the local population
from the occupied territory which
sustains Israel settlement policy also
advances the integration of the
territory Israel policies and practices
induce the departure of the Palestinian
population from parts of the occupied
Palestinian territory notably from East
Jerusalem and area C in the West Bank
this in turn enables the further
expansion of Israel's settlement policy
and the ready integration of Palestinian
territory into
Israel the court also recal that
Israel's practice of exploitation of the
natural resources in the West Bank is
inconsistent with the right of the
Palestinian people to permanent
sovereignty over natural
resources Israel's extension of its
domestic law to the West Bank notably to
the settlements and other and over
settlers as well as its assump ition of
broader regularity Powers by virtue of
the prolonged character of the
occupation entrenches its control over
the occupied
territory policies practices and other
measures that are such as to bring the
occupied territory into the occupying
Powers permanent control constitute acts
of
annexation having examined Israel's
policies and practices both in relation
to East Jerusalem and to the West Bank
with a view to determining whether they
amount to annexation the court comes to
the conclusion that Israel's policies
and practices including the maintenance
and expansion of settlements the
construction of associated
infrastructure and the wall the
exploitation of Natural Resources the
proclamation of Jerusalem as Israel's
Capital the comprehensive application of
Israeli domestic law in East Jerusalem
and its extensive application in the
West Bank entrench Israel's control of
the occupied Palestinian territory
notably of East Jerusalem and of area C
of the West Bank these policies and
practices are designed to maintain in
place
indefinitely uh to sorry to remain in
place indefinitely and to create
irreversible effects on the ground
consequently the court considers that
these policies and practices amount to
annexation of large parts of the
occupied Palestinian
territory it is the view of the court
that to seek to acquire sovereignty over
an occupied territory as shown by the
policies and practices adopted by Israel
in East Jerusalem and the West Bank is
contrary to the prohibition of the use
of force international relations and its
corly principle of the non-acquisition
of territory by
force the manner in which the annexation
affects the legal status of the
occupation and thereby the legality of
the continued presence of Israel is
discussed later in the advisory
opinion the court then examined the
question of discriminatory legislation
and
measures recalling the wording of
question a in the conclusion it reach
with regard to the interpretation of the
question it not that it must itself
determine whether the legislation and
measures identified by the request of
the general assembly are
discriminatory in this regard the court
first considers that it has to limit its
analysis to legislation and measures
that are closely linked to the policies
and practices discussed previously
second the question covers Israel's
legislation and measures only to the
extent that they apply in the occupied
Palestinian
territory third the question is confined
to the potentially discriminatory
character of Israel's legislation and
measures having thus defined the scope
of question a the code turn to the
concept of
discrimination it considers that common
to all of the relevant provisions of
international law it the concept of
differential treatment between persons
belonging to different groups
it observed in this connection that the
existence of the Palestinian people is
not at issue therefore in the Court's
view differential treatment of
Palestinian can give R to
discrimination in order to answer
question
a the court first examines the effects
that Israel's residence permit policy in
East Jerusalem has on Palestinians in
the occupied Palestinian
territory the court then turned to the
restrictions by Israel on the movement
of Palestinians in the occupied
Palestinian territory finally it
examines Israel practice of demolition
of Palestinian properties in the West
Bank and in East Jerusalem both with
regard to the practice of punitive
Demolition and demolitions for lack of a
building
permit the court n notes that in that
connection that it's reported that
almost 11,000 Palestinian structures
have been demolished since
2009 the court concludes from the
evidence presented to it and on the
basis of its analysis that a broad array
of legislation adopted and measures
taken by Israel in its capacity as an
occupying power treat Palestinians
differently on grounds specified by
international law the court notes that
this differentiation of treatment cannot
be justified with reference to
reasonable and objective criteria nor to
a legitimate public
aim accordingly the court is of the view
that the regime of comprehensive
restrictions imposed by Israel on
Palestinian in the occupied Palestinian
territory constitute systematic
discrimination based on on inter area
race religion or ethnic origin in
violation of Article 2 paragraph 1 and
26 of the
iccpr Article 2 paragraph 2 of the
iccr and Article 2 of
third a number of participants have
argued that Israel's policies and
practices in the occupied Palestinian
territory amount to segregation or
aparti in breach of article three of
thir article three of third provides as
follows I quote States parties
particularly condemn racial segregation
and aparte and undertake to prevent
prohibit and and eradicate all practices
of this nature in territories under
their
jurisdiction this provision refers to
two particularly severe forms ofal of
racial
discrimination racial segregation and
aparti the court observed that Israel's
legislation and measures imposed and uh
serve to maintain a near complete
separation in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem between the settler and
Palestinian communities for this reason
the court considers that Israel's
legislation and measures constitute a
breach of article three of
s having found that Israel settlement
policy its acts of annexation and its
related discriminatory legislation and
measures are in breach of international
law the court turned to the aspect of
question a that inquires as to the
effects of Israel's policies and
practices on the exercise of the inan
people's right to
self-determination the court has already
affirmed in its whole opinion the
existence of the right of the
Palestinian people to
self-determination in the present
proceedings the court first determined
the scope of this right and then
examines the effects if any that
Israel's policies and practices have on
its
exercise in light of its analysis the
quote is of the view that the prolonged
character of Israel's unlawful policies
and practices aggravates their violation
of the right of the Palestinian people
to
self-determination as a consequence of
Israel's policies and practices which
span decades the Palestinian people has
been deprived of its right to
self-determination over a long period
and further prolongation of these
policies and practices undermines the
exercise of this right in the future
for these reasons the court is of the
view that Israel's unlawful policies and
practices are in breach of Israel's
obligation to respect the right of the
Palestinian people to
self-determination the manner in in
which these policies affect the legal
status of the occupation and thereby the
legality of the continued presence of
Israel in the occupied territory is
discussed later
I shall now continue reading the rest of
the opinion in
French the court then turns to the first
part of question B on which the general
assembly requested its opinion and
examines whether and if so the matter in
which the policies and practices of
Israel have affected the legal status of
the occupation in light of the relevant
rules and principles of international
law it begins by fur further determining
the scope of the first part of question
B posed by the general
assembly in this regard the court
considers that the first part of
question B posed by the general assembly
is not whether the policies and
practices of Israel affect the legal
status of the occupation as such rather
the court is of the view that the scope
of the first part of the second question
concerns the manner in which Israel's
policies and practices affect the legal
status of the occupation and thereby the
legality of the continued presence of
Israel as an occupying power in the
occupied Palestinian
territory this legality is to be
determined under the rules and
principles of General international law
including those of the charter of the
United Nations
the court has determined that Israeli
policies and practices and the manner in
which they are implemented and applied
on the ground have significant effects
on the legal status of the of the
occupation through the extension of
Israeli sovereignity to certain parts of
the occupied territory their gradual
annexation to Israeli
territory the exercise of Israeli
governmental functions and the
application of it its domestic laws
therein as well as through the transfer
of a great number of its own Nationals
to those parts of the
territory and impeding the exercise of
the right to self-determination of the
Palestinian
people the court is of the view that
Israel's assertion of sovereignity and
its annexation of certain parts of the
territory constitute a violation of the
prohibition of the acquisition of
territory by force
this violation has a direct impact on
the legality of israeli's continued
presence as an occupying power in the
occupied Palestinian
territory the court considers that
Israel is not entitled to sovereignity
over or to exercise sovereign powers in
any part of the occupied Palestinian
territory on account of its
occupation nor can Israel's security
concerns override the principle of the
prohibition of the acquisition of
territory by
force the court further observes that
the effects of Israel's policies and
practices discussed
earlier and its exercise of sovereignity
over certain parts of the occupied
Palestinian
territory particularly the West Bank and
East J Jerusalem constitute an
obstruction to the exercise by the
Palestinian people of its right to
self-determination the effects of these
policies and practices include Israel's
annexation of parts of the occupied
Palestinian territory the fragmentation
of this territory undermining its
Integrity the deprivation of the
Palestinian people of the enjoyment of
the natural resources of the
territory and its impairment of the
Palestinian people's right to pursue its
economic social and cultural development
the above described effects of Israel's
policies and practices resulting inter
Alia in the prolonged deprivation of the
Palestinian people of its right to
self-determination constitute a breach
of this fundamental
right this breach has a direct impact on
the legality of Israel's presence as an
occupying power in the occupied
Palestinian
territory the court is of the view that
occupation can not be used in such a
manner as to leave
indefinitely the occupied Pol population
in a state of suspension and
uncertainty denying them the right to
self-determination while integrating
parts of their territory into the
occupying power's own
territory the court considers that the
existence of the Palestinian people's
right to self-determination cannot be
subject to conditions on the part of the
occupying power in view of its character
as an inalienable
right in light of the forgoing the court
turns to the examination of the legality
of the continued presence of Israel in
the occupied Palestinian
territory the court considers that the
violations by Israel of the prohibition
of the acquisition of territory by force
and of the Palestinian people's right to
self-determination have a direct impact
on the legality of the continued
presence of Israel as an occupying power
in the occupied Palestinian territory
the sustained abuse by Israel of its
position as an occupying power through
annexation and an assertion of permanent
control over the occupied Palestinian
territory and continued frustration of
the right of the Palestinian people to
self-determination violates fundamental
principles of international law and res
renders Israel's presence in the
occupied Palestinian territory un
lawful this illegality relates to the
entirety of the Palestinian territory
occupied by Israel in
1967 this is the territorial unit across
which Israel has imposed policies and
practices to fragment and frustrate the
ability of the Palestinian people to
exer exercise its right to
self-determination and over large suedes
of which it has extended Israeli
sovereignity in violation of
international law
the entirety of the occupied Palestinian
territory is also the territory in
relation to which the Palestinian people
should be able to exercise its right to
self-determination the Integrity of
which must be
respected responding to an argument made
by a few participants the court observes
that the OSU Accords do not permit
Israel to Annex parts of the occupied
pal Palestinian territory in order to
meet its security needs nor do they
authorize Israel to maintain a permanent
presence in the occupied Palestinian
territory for such security
needs the court emphasizes that the
conclusion that Israel's continued
presence in the occupied Palestinian
territory is illegal does not release it
from its obligations and
responsibilities under international law
particularly the law of occupation
obligations and respons possibilities
towards the pal Palestinian population
and towards other states in respect of
the exercise of its powers in relation
to the territory until such time as its
presence is brought to an
end it is the effective control of a
territory regardless of its legal status
under international law which determines
the basis of the responsibility of a
state for its acts affecting the
population of the territory or other
states the court has found that Israel's
policies and practices referred to in
question a are in breach of
international
law the maintenance of these policies
and practices is an unlawful Act of a
continuing character entailing Israel's
International
responsibility the court has also found
in reply to the first part of question B
that the continued presence of Israel in
the occupied Palestinian territory is
illegal the court therefore addresses
the legal
consequences arising from Israel's
policies and practices referred to in
question a for Israel together with
those arising from the illegality of
Israel's continued presence in the
occupied Palestinian ter under question
B for Israel for other states and for
the United Nations
with regard to the Court's finding that
Israel's continued presence in the
occupied Palestinian territory is
illegal the court considers that such
presence constitutes a wrongful act
entailing its International
responsibility it is a wrongful Act of a
continuing character which has been
brought about by Israel's violations
through its policies and practices of
the prohibition of the acquisition of
territory by force and the right to
self-determination of the Palestinian
people
consequently Israel has an obligation to
bring an end to its presence in the
occupied Palestinian territory as
rapidly as
possible the court further observes that
with respect to the policies and
practices of Israel refer to in question
a which were found to be unlawful Israel
has an obligation to put an end to those
unlawful acts in this respect Israel
must immediately cease all new
settlement activity Israel also has an
obligation to repeal all legislation and
measures creating or maintaining the
unlawful situation including those which
discriminate against the Palestinian
people in the occupied Palestinian
territory as well as all measures aimed
at modifying the demographic composition
of any parts of the
territory Israel also is also under an
obligation to provide full reparation
for the damage caused by its
International wrongful acts to all
natural or legal persons concerned
reparation includes restitution
compensation and or
satisfaction restitution includes
Israel's obligation to return the land
and other immovable property as well as
all assets seized from any natural or
legal person since its occupation
started in
1967 and all cultural property and
assets taken from Palestinians and
Palestinian instit institutions
including archives and
documents it also requires the
evacuation of all settlers from existing
settlements and the dismantling of the
parts of the Wall constructed by Israel
that are situated in the occupied
Palestinian
territory as well as allowing all
Palestinians displaced during the
occupation to return to their original
place of
residence in the event that such
restitution should prove to be
materially impossible possible Israel
has an obligation to compensate in
accordance with the applicable rules of
international law all natural or legal
persons and populations where that may
be the case having suffered any form of
material damage as a result of Israel's
wrongful acts under the
occupation the court emphasize that the
obligations flowing from Israel's
internationally wrongful acts do not
release it from its continuing duty to
perform the international obligations
which its conduct is in breach of
specifically Israel remains bound to
comply with its obligation to respect
the right of the Palestinian people to
self-determination and its obligations
under international human humanitarian
law and international human rights
law the court then turns to the legal
consequences of Israel's
internationally wrongful acts in the
occupied Palestinian territory as
regards other states the court observes
that the obligations violated by Israel
include certain obligations erga omnus
among which are the obligation to
respect the right of the Palestinian
people to
self-determination and the obligation
arising from the prohibition of the use
of force to acquire territory as well as
certain of its obligations under
International humanitarian law and
international human rights law
with regard to the right to
self-determination the court considers
that while it is for the general
assembly and the security Council to
pronounce on the modalities required to
ensure an end to Israel's illegal
presence in the occupied Palestinian
territory and the full realization of
the right of the Palestinian people to
self-determination all states must
cooperate with the United Nations to put
these modalities into effect
as regards the prohibition of the acus
of the acquisition of territory by force
taking note of the resolutions of the
security Council and general assembly
the court is of the view that member
states are under an obligation not to
recognize any changes in the physical
character or demographic
composition institutional structure or
status of the territory occupied by
Israel on the 5th of June
1967 including Jerusalem East Jerusalem
except as agreed by the parties to the
conflict through negotiations and to
distinguish in their dealings with
Israel between the territory of the
state of Israel and the Palestinian
territory occupied since
1967 moreover the court considers that
in view of the character and importance
of the rights and obligations involved
all all states are under an obligation
not to recognize as legal the situation
arising from the unlawful presence of
Israel in the occupied Palestinian
territory they are also under an
obligation not to render Aid or
assistance in maintaining the situation
created by Israel's illegal presence in
the occupied Palestinian
territory it is for all states while
respecting the charter of the United
Nations and international law to ensure
that any
impediment resulting from the illegal
presence of Israel in the occupied
Palestinian territory to the exercise of
the Palestinian people of its right to
self-determination is brought to an
end in addition all the states parties
to the Fourth Geneva Convention have the
obligation while respecting the charter
of the United Nations at international
law to ensure compliance by Israel with
International humanitary law as embodied
in that
convention the duty of non-recognition
specified earlier also applies to
International organizations including
the United Nations in view of the
serious breaches of obligations ER
omness under international law the
obligation not to recognize as legal the
situation arising from the unlawful
presence of Israel in the occupied
Palestinian territory and the obligation
to distinguish in dealings with Israel
between the territory of Israel and the
occupied Palestinian territory apply
also to the United St the United
Nations finally the court is of the view
that the precise modalities to bring to
an end Israel's unlawful presence in the
occupied Palestinian territory is a
matter to be dealt with by the general
assembly which requested this opinion as
well as the security
Council therefore it is for the you the
general assembly and the security
Council to consider what further action
is required to put an end to the legal
presence of Israel taking into account
the present advisory
opinion the court considers it important
to stress as it did in its wall advisory
opinion I quote the Urgent necessity for
the United Nations as a whole to
redouble its efforts to bring the
Israeli Palestinian conflict which
continues to pose a threat to
International Peace and security to a
speedy conclusion thereby establishing a
just and Lasting peace in the
region end of
quote the court also considers that the
realization of the right of the
Palestinian people to
self-determination including its right
to an independent and sovereign state
living side by side in peace with the
state of Israel within secure and
recognized borders for both States as
envisaged in resolutions of the security
Council and general assembly would
contribute to Regional stability and the
security of all states in the Middle
East the court
emphasizes that its reply to the
questions put to it by the general
assembly rests on the totality of the
legal grounds set forth by the court
above Each of which is to be read in the
light of the
others taking into account the framing
by the court of the material Territorial
and temporal scope of the questions
I'll Now read in English paragraph 285
which contains the operative Clause of
the
opinion for these reasons the court one
unanimously find that it has
jurisdiction to give the advisor opinion
requested two by 14 votes to one decides
to comply with the request for an
advisory opinion
in favor president Salam judges tomka
Abraham
YF bandari iwasawa n charers BR Gomez
Roo Cleveland
oresco against vice president
cind by 11 votes to
four is of the opinion that the state of
Israel's continued presence in the
occupied territory is
unlawful in favor president Salam judges
Yu bandar
iwasawa n Charlesworth BR Gomez roblo
Cleveland against vice president cind
judges Toma Abraham
res by 11 po to
four is of the opinion that the state of
Israel is under an obligation to bring
an end to sorry to bring to an end its
unlawful presence in the occupied
Palestinian territory as rapidly as
possible in favor president Salam judges
Yu bandari iwasawa n chargor brand Gomez
roblo Cleveland CL
against vice president seu judges tomka
Abraham
uresco by 14 votes to one is of the
opinion that the state of Israel is
under an obligation to cease immediately
all new settlement activities and to
evacuate all settlers from the occupied
Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges
tomka Abraham yo
bandari iwasawa n Charlesworth brand
Gomez roblo Cleveland
uresco against VI
president by 14 votes to
one is of the opinion that the state of
Israel has the obligation to make
reparation for the damage caused to all
uh natural or legal persons concerned in
in the occupied Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges tomka AB Abraham
yusf mandari iwasawa n charers brand
Gomez roblo Cleveland
uresco against vice president
subu by 12 votes to three is of the
opinion that all states under are under
an obligation not to recognize as legal
the situation arising from the unlawful
presence of the state of Israel in the
occupied Palestinian territory and not
to render Aid or assistance in
maintaining the situation created by the
continued presence of the state of
Israel in the occupied Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges tomka
yusf bandari iwasawa n
charge brand Gomez roblo
Cleveland against vice president seutin
judges Abraham
uresco by 12 vots to
three is of the opinion that
International organizations including
United Nations are under an obligation
not to recognize as legal the situation
arising from the unlawful presence of
the state of Israel in the occupied
Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges TKA
yof bandari iwasawa n charers brand
goome Roo
Cleveland against vice president seu
judges Abraham
Resco by 12 votes to
three is of the opinion that United
Nations and especially the general
assembly which requested this opinion
and the security Council should consider
the precise modalities and further
action required to bring to an end as
rapidly as possible the unlawful
presence of the state of Israel in the
occupied Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges TKA
Yu wandari iwasawa n chargw brand kblo
Cleveland against vice president judges
Abraham
uresco I shall Now call upon the
registar to read the operative part of
the opinion in
Mr Mr
registar for these reasons the court one
unanimously finds that it has
jurisdiction to give the advisory
opinion requested two by 14 votes to one
decides to comply with the request for
an advisory opinion in
favor Mr slam president judges tomka
Abraham YF M bandari Mr waswa nter
Charlesworth bront Gomez roblo Cleveland
orcu tadi against vice president
setin three by 11 votes to four is a of
the opinion that the state of Israel's
continued presence in the occupied
Palestinian territory is unlawful in
favor president Salam judges YF Shu
bandari iwasawa nter Charlesworth Brun
Gomez rblo Cleveland claudi against vice
president abnd judges tomka Abraham
aresu four by 11 votes to four is of the
opinion that the state of Israel is
under an obligation to bring an end to
its unlawful presence in the occupied
Palestinian territory as rapidly as
possible in favor president Salam judges
yusu Shou bandari iwasawa nter
Charlesworth Brun Gomez roblo Cleveland
CL against vice president seend judges
Toma Abraham or rescu
five by 14 votes to one is of the
opinion that the state of Israel is
under an obligation to cease immediately
all new settlement
activities and to evacuate all settlers
from the occupied Palestinian territory
in favor president Salam judges Toma
Abraham YF Troy bandari iwasawa NTA
Charlesworth Brun Gomez roblo Cleveland
or rescu claudi
against vice president
Sindu six by 14 votes to one is of the
opinion that the state of Israel has the
obligation to make reparation for the
damage caused to all natural or legal
persons concerned in the occupied
Palestinian territory in favor president
Salam judges tomka Abraham Yu Shu
bandari iwasawa nte Charlesworth Brun
Gomez roblo Cleveland AR rescu claudi
against vice president
znd seven by 12 votes to three is of the
opinion that all states are under an
obligation not to recognize as legal the
situation arising from the unlawful
presence of the state of Israel in the
occupied Palestinian territory and not
to render Aid or assistance in
maintaining the situation created by the
continued presence of the state of
Israel in the OCC occupied Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges Toma yusu bandari iwasawa nter
Charlesworth Brun Gomez roblo Cleveland
claudi against vice president abnd
judges Abraham
oresco eight by 12 votes to three is of
the opinion that International
organizations including the United
Nations are under an obligation not to
recognize as legal the situation arising
from the unlawful presence of the state
of Israel in the occupied Palestinian
territory in favor president Salam
judges tomka yusu Shu bandari yasawa
nter Charlesworth Brun Gomez roblo
Cleveland
CL against vice president saind judges
Abraham or rescu
nine by 12 votes to
three is of the opinion that the United
Nations and especially the general
assembly which requested this opinion
and the security Council should consider
the precise
modalities and further action
required to bring an end as rapidly as
possible the lawful presence of the
state of Israel in the occupied
Palestinian territory in favor
president Salam judges tomka yusu
bandari yasawa noter Charlesworth BR
Gomez roblo Cleveland
clud against vice president saind judges
Abraham or
rescu a declaration to the advisor
opinion of the Court vice president sind
appends a a descending opinion to the
advisor opinion of the court judge tomka
appends a declaration to the advisor
opinion of the Court judges tomka
Abraham and uresco apped a joint opinion
to the advisor opinion of the court
judge YF appends a separate opinion to
the advisor opinion of the court judge
Shue appends a declaration to the
advisor opinion of the Court judges
iwasawa and NTI append separate opinions
to The Advisory op op of the Court
judges n and Cleveland append a joint
declaration to the advisor opinion of
the Court judges Charlesworth and brand
append declarations to the advisor
opinion of the Court judges Gomez roblo
and Cleveland append separate opinion to
The Advisory opinion of the court judge
ladiy appends a declaration to The
Advisory opinion of the Court the text
of the opinion is available from today
in typescript it will also be available
almost immediately on the course
Internet site the printed text will be
available in the near
future as the court has no other
business before it I declare the sitting
closed
for
e
e e
did BINA symphonica
[Music]
the
for
[Music]